the Hamas militant group says it has
accepted an Egyptian Qatari ceasefire
proposal to hold the 7-month war with
Israel both Israel and Washington say
they are reviewing that plan earlier an
Israeli official said the proposal was
watered down and unacceptable to Israel
despite that hamas's announcement
prompted immediate celebrations in
southern Gaza just hours earlier Israel
had ordered tens of thousands of
displaced Palestinians Sheltering in the
southern city of Rafa to leave and head
to a refugee camp ahead of an expected
Israeli ground incursion in the last
hour the Israeli military said it had
begun what it described as targeted
strikes against Hamas in the eastern
part of
Rafa now DW correspondent a Ibrahim
joins me from Jerusalem U we getting
reports of heavy bombardment in Rafa
what do you know
well the prime minister's office a short
while ago announced that the security uh
the war cabinet Parton has unanimously
uh voted to continue Israel's operation
in uh Rafa and what the Israeli uh
military now claims is that it is
targeting uh Hamas operatives in in in
Rafa and that southern moster most
southern part of uh the Gaza Strip uh
however Rafa is hugely densely populated
at the moment over a million uh
Palestinians had fled there uh
throughout the course of this war
because the southern part of Gaza is of
course where Israel had uh urged
civilians for a very long time
throughout the war virtually since the
beginning to evacuate to as it started
its operation uh in the north so that's
a million people in addition to people
that were already living in so as has
been the case in this war even though
the military will claim that they are
targeting militants civilians will uh
inevitably be caught in uh the crossfire
and this of course comes after there was
actually a sense of relief and joy
tonight in Rafa and elsewhere throughout
the Gaza Strip at news that a a
ceasefire proposal had been accepted uh
by Hamas uh leadership uh the Israeli uh
prime minister has uh said that even
though the proposal is not I'm
paraphrasing his statement now is not up
to what Israel was hoping for that he
would still send a delegation to Cairo
to exhaust all uh options uh for
negotiations and we've also heard some
families of some of the hostages that
are still believed to be held by Hamas
in Gaza H give a statement tonight
saying that everyone who said that they'
been committed to returning the hostages
should now really uh get together and
try to make this work as they are of
course also desperate to get their loved
ones back now talk us to what we do know
about the truce proposal that Hamas says
it has
accepted so it would appear that they
would be it is a it is a multi- uh
phased uh proposal that would have an
initial phase of returning at least some
of uh The Host ages Israeli hostages
believe to be held in Gaza in exchange
for Palestinian prisoners currently in
Israeli jails that there would be an
initial period of about 45 days of a
truce a humanitarian truce to allow for
that exchange but that afterwards uh
that um uh uh truce ceasefire would be
extended and more uh Israeli hostages
would be exchanged as well as uh bodies
of the deceased that are still being
held by Hamas uh in in Gaza would be
returned to Israel followed then by a
phase of uh rebuilding and and and re
construction but again whatever uh the
exact details it would appear that that
is not something that the Israeli Prime
Minister is willing to accept at this
point however as I just mentioned there
will be an Israeli delegation going to
KIRO so this could also uh uh change the
United States has said that they are now
studying uh the results of uh this the
Hamas response and that they are
Consulting with their allies in the
region so it appears to be there appears
to be movement there and a real
commitment at least from the side of the
United States to try and reach some kind
of agreement Abrahim they're reporting
from Jerusalem and from more on the US
side of things the W correspondent
Benjamin Alvarez grba joins me now from
Washington DC Benjamin we've just uh had
the reactions from the US what can you
tell
us that's right Washington is still
reviewing this response that he got from
Hamas to a ceasefire proposal what the
spokesperson of the state department
said is that yes as we just heard from
our colleague a Ibrahim is discussing
with its Partners in the region and he
also added that CIA director Bill Burns
is in the region working on this but the
state department declined to
characterize to take a position towards
this response that he got from Hamas but
it's sad that Washington believes that a
hostage deal is in the best interest of
both the Israeli and also the
Palestinian people State Department
spokesperson stressed that a military
operation in Rafa right now would
dramatically increase the suffering of
the Palestinian people and would lead to
increase in loss of civilian life and
with the reports that we're getting now
it remains to be seen how the US will
react what we got was a statement also
by the Pentagon saying that defense
secretary LD Austin had had a talk with
his Israeli counterpart saying that
Israel needs a credible plan to evacuate
civilians and maintain humanitarian Aid
and their Washington has not seen
details on that yet now President Biden
also spoke on the phone with Benjamin
Netanyahu to today what do we know about
that
conversation that's right it was a half
an hour call so 30 minutes the White
House called it constructive and it also
said that President Biden urged prime
minister Benyamin Netanyahu against
launching offensive in the southern Gaza
City of Rafa the National Council
Security Council spokesperson John Kirby
said the President Biden reiterated a
clear stance on Rafa but offered no
details on what a clear stance would
actually look like or if there would be
any consequences if Israel goes ahead
with a broader attack that might be
indeed imminent looking at the pictures
that we're getting from Rafa it remains
to be seen how Washington will react if
Hill would react with actions and not
just with a conern statements and words
and during a meeting that President
Biden held here in Washington with
Jordan's King Abdullah he also said that
an Israeli attack that's what King
Abdullah said it threatens to lead to
new and I quote a new Massacre so
pressure is increasing on the White
House and Senator Bernie Sanders one of
President Biden's biggest Critics on its
support for Israel tweeted out today
saying that President Biden must back
his words with action asking him to end
all offensive military aid to is
Washington correspondent Benjamin AR
grber there reporting thank you